No one aspires to be great.
We identify ourselves by our jobs, never believing we're anything more than an arbitrary job.
We 'dream' of greatness, hear stories and are fascinated by ideas
We think, as we grow up, that the world is perfect, every decision about the way the country is run is fair and just
We keep that belief, at least subconsiously. Our beliefs limit us.

We have the power to change ourselves. We even realize it, but we are afraid of anything to attacks our sense of self.
We aspire to greatness, but our body stops us, our body takes control. That voice in the back of your mind that says something cannot be done is a product of everything that you have ever learned or experienced. It did not spawn out of thin air. If everyone in the world had treated you differently you would have a different voice inside your head. If you succeed where people think you would fail the beliefs you truly hold about what's possible could change.

Prove yourself right, your logic tells you it is possible so you have an obligation to try. Become who you would like to become most. Truth be told people know far less about the person they would like to be than they would like to think. They know more about the person they are at the present time then anything else, that's why they act the way they do. That's all they know, that's all they were told, that's the only thing they've been lead to believe is possible.

But more is possible.

Neurons that fire together, wire together. When you think about going downstairs for a snack, before you even know what's happening you're already halfway down the stairs. Or putting the next episode on rather than trying to go to sleep. Thoughts alone can cause hormone releases all over your body and brain in anticipation for what comes next. You think of food and your mouth fills with saliva. You hear a scream and you suddenly become alert and responsive. You hear a particular tone of voice and you near instantly stop paying attention. Fear might strike you and a fight or flight response is engaged.

Some of these responses are naturally programmed into you, for example the scream, an alert to danger usually. We don't really have to 'learn' what the scream means, we just hear it and know it means there's potential danger around. Neurons get fired in your body based on the pitch, tone etc. We don't actually feel the fear in someones voice, we hear the voice and it causes us to feel the fear within ourselves. This is Empathy.

But have you considered that each of these millions of potential responses is, essentially, programmed into you, they can be changed. Sure some reactions are part of natural instinct patterns, but they can be manipulated, either naturally or 'unnaturally'. Imagine you get locked in a room with nothing to do but wait to be given food and water. Everyday you hear an earthshattering scream from outside the room and 1 minute later someone gives you food and water, you will in time start producing saliva and a rush of dopamine from the moment you hear the scream, not when you're given the food. The fear from hearing the scream will vanish, replaced by something else.

What this means is the reponses to external or even internal events in ours lives can be changed.

Imagine a life where when you should feel depressed, you feel inspired. Where sadness is replaced with happiness. Where want is replaced with contentment.

Have you ever felt like you could do anything, aspire to anything or become anyone you want to be, I have. It doesn't last long though, a minute, maybe an hour or even a day. But eventually it will subside, and something else will take its place. What if it didn't have to subside, what if you could truly believe the best about yourself all the time. This belief isn't real, no feeling you have is real, just hormones released by external or internal triggers. The triggers you have and the reactions you have to them can be changed. Decide how you want to feel and act when a particular thing happens and work on it until that's what actually happens.




